In this month’s program,
we’ll learn how Jehovah
is there for us when life feels unfair.
In a new episode of Imitate Their Faith,
we’ll see how Miriam
accepted discipline with humility.
How did two teens promote real change
when they were surrounded by injustice?
We’ll see in our next installment
of Reasons for Faith.
Our music video
will show how Jehovah empowers us
when we feel overwhelmed.
Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
Do you ever feel disadvantaged?
Do you feel that perhaps
because of unfavorable circumstances
over which you have no control,
you just don’t have a fair chance in life?
Maybe you feel that in the race of life
others seem to be able to run freely
but you have to run with a crutch.
In this program,
we’re going to talk
about a very endearing aspect
of Jehovah’s personality:
his loving care for the disadvantaged.
We’ll delve into his feelings for such ones,
his respect for them,
and his long history of caring for them.
We’ll also consider
how Jehovah’s care of the lowly ones
draws us closer to him
and how it can reassure you
if you face disadvantages in your life.
To begin with,
who are the disadvantaged?
When we speak
of disadvantaged ones in this discussion,
we’re not talking
about the inadequacies of the person
but, rather,
of the unfortunate circumstances in life
that one must contend with.
Often a person inherits the situation
through no fault of his own.
Among such ones,
the Bible specifically mentions widows,
orphans, and foreign residents.
Notice this at Deuteronomy 24:17:
“You must not pervert the judgment
of the foreign resident
“or of the fatherless child,
“and you must not seize
the garment of a widow
as security for a loan.”
The Watchtower  said:
“The Law specifically protected those
“who could not protect themselves,
such as orphans,
widows, and foreign residents.”
Psalm 10:14 refers to such ones
as “unfortunate victim[s].”
The Bible also uses the term “lowly ones,”
not because they’re less important,
but because of their circumstances.
Our next main question is,
How does Jehovah feel about such ones?
We really see a beautiful aspect
of Jehovah’s personality here
—his compassion and empathy—
in action.
Since a widow doesn’t have a husband
to care for her,
an orphan doesn’t have parents
to provide for and protect him,
and a foreigner has no advocate,
Jehovah steps in
and fills those roles personally.
Notice this in the wording of Psalm 68:5:
“A father of the fatherless
and a protector of widows
is God in his holy dwelling.”
Jehovah himself assumes
the responsibility left vacated.
He becomes the Father;
he becomes the Protector.
As their Protector,
note how he views their care
at Exodus 22:22-24:
“You must not afflict any widow
or fatherless child.
“If you afflict him at all,
so that he cries out to me,
“I will unfailingly hear his outcry;
“and my anger will blaze,
“and I will kill you with the sword,
“and your wives will become widows,
and your children will be fatherless.”
Regarding this verse,
The Watchtower  said:
“Notice that Jehovah did not
leave it up to the human judges in Israel
“to enforce this law.
“God himself would execute judgment
upon anyone
who took advantage of a defenseless child.”
This is how personally
Jehovah takes the care
of the lowly, disadvantaged ones.
They become his responsibility;
they come under his protection.
Jehovah personally makes up for any
disadvantage they may have.
The fact that Jehovah takes
personal responsibility for such ones
is further seen at Proverbs 19:17:
“The one showing favor to the lowly
“is lending to Jehovah,
and He will repay him for what he does.”
Let’s walk through the process
that this verse describes.
First, we assist the lowly,
or we show favor to them,
in some way.
We help them in a practical way,
we encourage them,
we make sure they get justice
or care for something else
they’re in need of.
Well, as discussed,
Jehovah has assumed the responsibility
to care for these disadvantaged ones.
So when we step in and assist,
Jehovah views this
as if we are giving to him,
assisting him with his responsibility.
Jehovah doesn’t view it as a gift or payment
but as a loan.
What’s the difference
between a gift and a loan?
A loan must be repaid.
Imagine,
when we assist the disadvantaged,
Jehovah actually views himself
as indebted to us lowly humans!
Jehovah will repay that debt
with favor and blessings.
Without a doubt,
Jehovah feels strongly
about the care of disadvantaged ones.
Let’s consider this a little further.
Because of Jehovah’s love
and compassion for the disadvantaged,
he enacted laws to protect them in Israel.
In these laws, we see the depth
of Jehovah’s understanding
and his tender care
and protection of such ones.
Consider just two examples.
First, let’s look at his law
regarding a security for a loan.
We find this at Exodus 22:26, 27:
“If you seize the garment of your fellow man
“as security for a loan,
“you are to return it to him by sunset.
“For it is his only covering,
his clothing to cover his body;
“in what will he lie down to sleep?
“When he cries out to me,
I will certainly hear,
for I am compassionate.”
There’s compassion in this law
for any poor Israelite
who might find himself in this situation.
However, note the additional stipulation
made in the case of widows,
as stated at Deuteronomy 24:17:
“You must not pervert the judgment
of the foreign resident
“or of the fatherless child,
“and you must not seize
the garment of a widow
as security for a loan.”
In the widow’s case,
no Israelite
was to take her garment as security at all!
Jehovah evidently
wanted to eliminate any chance
that she’d be left overnight
without her garment to keep her warm.
Isn’t that beautiful?
Don’t we see Jehovah’s special love and care
for disadvantaged ones in a law like this?
Here’s a second example
of a law made to help the lowly ones.
In this case,
it was related to the sacrifices
the Israelites were to make to Jehovah
for the forgiveness of their sins.
We know the importance of blood
in regard to sacrifices
to atone ones from sin.
Leviticus 17:11 tells us
that “it is the blood that makes atonement.”
However, note the provision
made for the very poor in Israel,
found at Leviticus 5:11:
“Now if he cannot afford
two turtledoves or two young pigeons,
“he must bring as his offering for his sin
a tenth of an ephah of fine flour
for a sin offering.”
Regarding this, The Watchtower  said:
“For the very poor,
Jehovah chose to make an exception
“and allow a sin offering without blood.
“In Israel, poverty denied no one
the blessing of atonement
or the privilege of making peace with God.”
The Watchtower  continued:
“Does that mean that the flour offerings
of the poor were worthless?
“No.
“Jehovah surely valued the humble,
“willing spirit behind such offerings.
“Furthermore, the sins of the entire nation
“—including the poor—
“were covered by the blood
of the animals offered to God
on the annual Day of Atonement.”
In this we see Jehovah’s reasonableness,
his compassion,
and his love for the disadvantaged.
No one was left out,
and they received the same refreshment
from their sacrifice as any other Israelite.
So far in our discussion,
we’ve highlighted that Jehovah
takes personal responsibility
for the care of disadvantaged ones.
He steps in and fills the vacated role.
And when we assist such ones,
he views it as lending to him.
Further, we see his love and compassion
in the laws he enacted
to protect such ones in Israel.
Here’s an important question:
When you think about the special place
Jehovah has in his heart
for disadvantaged ones,
how does that make you feel about him?
Doesn’t it draw you closer to Jehovah?
We can’t help but love him for it.
Jehovah’s love and care for the disadvantaged
is in such stark contrast
to the way such ones
are often treated in the world.
Sadly, the world often
steps on the disadvantaged
—taking more advantage of them
because they can.
Further, whom does the world
praise and promote?
Isn’t it typically the beautiful, the rich,
the talented, the funny, the charismatic?
Whereas the common person,
even more so the disadvantaged,
often doesn’t receive such favor.
By contrast, Jehovah is on the lookout
for the lowly ones.
This brings us to our next question:
How is this reassuring for those of us
who are disadvantaged in one way or another?
At the outset, we asked that question:
Do you feel disadvantaged?
What are your circumstances?
Maybe because of your situation,
you relate to the widow, the orphan,
or the foreign resident in Israel.
And while the Mosaic Law
specifically mentioned those three,
we could broaden those groups today,
couldn’t we?
For example,
we certainly have widows in our midst today,
and our hearts truly go out
to these dear ones.
But couldn’t we also include in this group
wives who are neglected or abused
by their husbands
verbally, emotionally, or physically?
Such ones don’t have the normal protection
expected of a husband.
Couldn’t we also include single parents
—either because of the death of a mate
or because of divorce or abandonment?
Along with orphans, couldn’t we include
children of single parents,
children of parents
addicted to alcohol or drugs,
or children of parents suffering
from severe depression
or other debilitating mental illness?
In these cases, the children
may not be getting the normal care
and training that’s due them.
And what about foreigners?
These are disadvantaged
because they have no advocate,
no legal recourse, for protection.
Couldn’t we also include in this group
ones who are minorities in the land
where they live
and so are often discriminated against?
Really, we could include any
who do not have
the normal protection due them
or just don’t have
the same opportunities as others
and any who feel disadvantaged,
such as the impoverished,
the disabled, those with a lack of education
or training,
those who because of unfavorable
circumstances in their youth
didn’t get a fair chance,
and the list could go on.
What makes you feel disadvantaged?
Well, all of Jehovah’s loving,
tender care for the lowly ones
who we discussed earlier applies to you.
Jehovah feels just as strongly
about your situation
as he did for the widow
and orphan and foreign resident in Israel.
He takes personal responsibility
for your care and protection.
Note what the Bible says
about him at Isaiah 57:15:
“For this is what
the High and Lofty One says,
“who lives forever and whose name is holy:
“‘I reside in the high and holy place,
“‘but also with those
crushed and lowly in spirit,
“‘to revive the spirit of the lowly
and to revive
the heart of those being crushed.’”
Here Jehovah says
that he resides with the lowly ones.
That means that he doesn’t just see
your situation from afar.
He doesn’t just come and go quickly.
No, this gives the sense that he sits down,
he gets comfortable, and he stays with you.
And for what purpose
does he remain close to you?
To revive your spirit and your heart.
He has open concern for your welfare.
Have you personally experienced
Jehovah’s loving help in your situation?
Of course, living during the time that we do,
we know that we can’t expect Jehovah
to shield us from every hardship
that comes our way.
But have you seen him help you endure?
Have you experienced him provide for you?
Have you seen him answer a prayer
at just the right time?
Have you come across a scripture
or article from the publications
that gave you just what you needed
when you needed it?
Have you seen Jehovah’s care
through a thoughtful word
or timely practical help from one of your
brothers or sisters in the congregation?
That is Jehovah residing with you!
You are not alone.
Jehovah is reviving your heart.
He has assumed responsibility for your care.
He takes it personally.
You are important to him!
And we just love him for it, don’t we?
There’s something else that Jehovah
does to help the disadvantaged.
He gives you hope.
You will not be downtrodden forever.
Jehovah’s care for the disadvantaged
will be fully expressed
in the new world
when all disadvantages will be removed.
Psalm 145:16 says:
“You open your hand and satisfy the desire
of every living thing.”
Not just the prominent
and not just the favored
but Jehovah will “satisfy the desire
of every living thing.”
That includes you.
The Watchtower  said:
“The fulfillment of Jehovah’s promises
will be so impressive
“that the difficulties and trials
of the present time
“will pale into insignificance.
“In the coming Paradise,
“the blessings from Jehovah
will surpass our imagination.
And we will certainly
experience unprecedented happiness.”
Nothing will be missing in Paradise.
Nothing will be unfair.
Every person will have every advantage.
Praised be Jehovah God,
the Protector of the disadvantaged ones.
We hope that this discussion
has reassured you,
reminded you of Jehovah’s tender care,
and given you confidence
that Jehovah will always be there for you.
He will always protect you,
whatever your disadvantage may be.
And in the end,
Jehovah has reserved a beautiful future
for all those seeking refuge in him.
Jehovah cared for the widows of the past.
And today, he’s with his servants
who experience a devastating loss.
Let’s see how Jehovah
has been there for Cort, a widower,
as he deals with the pain of losing his wife.
Miriam and I have been able to experience
many blessings from Jehovah.
We were able to go on different assignments
to Paraguay, Nigeria, Zambia.
And then we packed up
all of our belongings from home,
took up everything in our life,
and drove across the United States
from California to Patterson.
And within a couple of months,
she was diagnosed with ALS.
We were crushed.
We drove back to California,
and there we just tried
to do everything we could to help her.
Nothing worked, and she passed away.
And so it was extremely difficult.
She was my best friend.
I received an encouraging card from a sister
who was just helping me
to try and keep moving forward.
And one of the thoughts in there
was this particular scripture
at Psalm 18:29:
“By God’s power I can scale a wall.”
And sometimes our trials feel just like that.
They feel like something
that you just can’t get over.
And it’s impossible to climb a wall
when there’s nothing to grab on to.
The trial may feel this way to us, but again,
the scripture says
that “by God’s power” I can scale this wall.
So sticking with the goal of pioneering
helped me to get moving
and then helped me
to also want to try and reach out
for other goals,
like going back to doing temp work at Bethel.
It’s a privilege to be able to go to Bethel,
and every day you’re working for Jehovah.
It was nice
to be able to be with the friends.
They’re always so very, very encouraging,
and I know that working with them
and working on a theocratic project
helped to motivate me to keep moving,
to feel more positive.
I serve as an elder in the congregation.
So I’m still trying to do my assignments.
To try and be on shepherding visits
has been something to keep my mind,
not on myself,
but on trying to help others.
It’s always encouraging
to be out in the ministry
and to be with the friends,
and they have
different levels of anxieties, problems,
health issues,
and other things that they deal with.
When you talk to them and they encourage you,
it’s “an interchange of encouragement”
to be out in the ministry with the friends.
Miriam and I always had
a regular habit of personal study.
We did it together.
We loved to bounce ideas off of each other,
and we’d share points that we had dug up.
Now, even more so for myself,
I feel it’s important
because it helps me to keep motivated
to keep finding those points.
And also they’re good memories;
it’s something that we did together
that we enjoyed.
So I stick to my spiritual routine.
But I also have a physical routine.
I’ll mountain bike
three to four times a week.
To be in Jehovah’s creation
and to be on the trails,
it helps me to be able to have time to pray
and to meditate.
I can talk to Jehovah,
and I’m able to express myself.
What Jehovah has in store
for each and every one of us
is not what we are dealing with now,
but it’s going to be Paradise conditions.
We won’t have the issues
that we’re dealing with today.
Jehovah is helping me scale the wall
—helping me move forward.
Cort stays busy.
He gives to others,
and Jehovah continues
to give right back to him.
You can be assured He’ll do the same for you.
Maybe you’ve lost your mate
for a different reason.
Do you contend with feelings of loneliness?
The following morning worship explains
the emotional support Jehovah gives.
About 28 years after Jesus’ death,
the apostle Paul provided
comfort to the brothers
by means of our Scripture text today
by means of this wonderful promise,
when Jehovah said:
‘I will not forget you
—your works and your love.’
Now, why would the fact
that Jehovah does not forget
be of comfort to the brothers?
Don’t you agree
that if you tell somebody
that you don’t forget him
or what he has done,
it can have
a completely different meaning
depending on the person
and the circumstances?
Let us, therefore,
focus on the meaning of
“Jehovah does not forget.”
In order to make this discussion practical,
may we talk specifically
to you dear sisters
who’ve lost your husband in death
or whose husband was unfaithful?
Similar to your situation,
there must have been widows
in Judea back then
who went not only through the pain
of losing their mate
but also had to deal with all the changes
as well as economical and social challenges.
Therefore, we want to answer
the following three questions:
How did Jehovah remember,
or not forget,
the widow of Zarephath?
Then second, in what ways
does Jehovah remember
you dear sisters today?
And then third,
how can we all benefit
from Jehovah’s remembering?
So, first of all, how did Jehovah
remember the widow of Zarephath?
I’d like to invite you to turn to 1 Kings 17.
As we know, during a drought,
the prophet Elijah was directed by God
to go to Zarephath
in order to be saved and kept alive
through the help of a widow.
So Jehovah remembered the widow
in that he took note of her.
He saw her.
He knew she would be willing to help
and to be used by him.
Jehovah saw her potential.
Would the poor widow really help?
We read at verses 15 and 16
of 1 Kings 17:
“So she [the widow] went
and did as Elijah said,
“and she together with him
and her household
“ate for many days.
“The large jar of flour did not run out,
“and the small jar of oil did not run dry,
according to Jehovah’s word
that he had spoken through Elijah.”
Jehovah miraculously fed Elijah.
Did he forget the widow?
No.
Jehovah became a Savior to the widow.
Instead of dying,
the widow continued eating and drinking.
And even some time later,
Jehovah did not forget
the widow’s faith and her works.
How so?
After the death of the widow’s son,
Elijah asked Jehovah to resurrect the son.
We read at verses 22-24:
“Jehovah listened to Elijah’s request,
“and the life of the child
came back into him,
“and he revived.
“Elijah took the child and brought him down
“from the roof chamber into the house
“and gave him to his mother;
“and Elijah said: ‘See, your son is alive.’
“At that the woman said to Elijah:
“‘Now I know
“‘that you truly are a man of God
“‘and that Jehovah’s word in your mouth
is truth.’”
What a blessing for the widow!
Jehovah did not forget her work and faith.
What a joyous moment!
Jehovah became the Great Comforter.
Additionally,
by means of her resurrected son,
Jehovah cared for her as she grew old.
Jehovah became the Great Provider.
In Luke chapter 4,
Jesus makes a positive reference about her,
so it could be that she lived out her days
as a faithful servant of Jehovah.
How delighted she will be
when Jehovah remembers her soon again
and resurrects her!
So as we’ve seen in this example,
Jehovah does not forget
by becoming
what the individual needs the most.
Now, to our second question,
our dear sisters,
In what ways
does Jehovah remember you today?
Let us, please, look at three scriptures
to see what Jehovah becomes for you.
Let’s turn, first of all,
to John chapter 14,
because Jehovah knows
that your mate who commended you
and who assured you in the past
is not here anymore.
What helped Jesus to know
that he was loved and approved?
He was strengthened
by his Father’s approval and by his words.
And now Jesus assures you in verse 21
(this is John 14:21),
when he says:
“Whoever has my commandments
and observes them
“is the one who loves me.
“In turn, whoever loves me
will be loved by my Father,
“and I will love him
and will clearly show myself to him.”
So Jehovah loves you.
Please do not allow Satan
to create doubts in your mind
—doubts regarding
our heavenly Father’s approval.
Instead,
see the commendation and the love
expressed by your brothers and sisters
as coming from Jehovah.
Jehovah uses them
because he does not forget
your works and your love.
Now, the second scripture is Psalm 68.
Jehovah knows about the need
you feel for security and protection,
so he is becoming your Protector.
We read at verse 5 of Psalm 68
about Jehovah:
“A father of the fatherless
and a protector of widows.”
Yes, you are especially protected
by our heavenly Father.
For example,
he protects you from spiritual harm.
He equips you with what you need
in order to avoid danger,
and so you are able to safeguard
your friendship with him.
By means of his Word and the publications,
Jehovah makes
his loving guidance and protection
stand out to you.
Now, let’s turn to the third scripture,
Hebrews 13.
Losing a husband
goes along with anxieties
regarding material things.
So, what have you experienced so far?
Did Jehovah’s promise
that is repeated by the apostle Paul
here in Hebrews 13
at the end of verse 5
prove to be true
in your circumstances,
when he promised:
“I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you”?
Jehovah does not forget
your works and your love
by becoming your Provider.
And, please,
allow other brothers and sisters to help you.
This is the way Jehovah remembers you.
Mention your needs to them
so that Jehovah can use them
to care for you.
So Jehovah does not forget
your works and your love
by assuring you of his approval,
by becoming your Protector and your Provider,
and in many more ways.
Now, our final question was
‘How can you
—and how can we all—
benefit from Jehovah’s remembering?’
What we’ve discussed so far was something
you heard many times before
—nothing new.
And yet, there are these moments
where we just would like Jehovah
to speak directly to us, saying:
‘I see you.
I see your works.
I see your love,
and I will not forget you.’
What can we do in these very moments?
Now, God’s words need to sound down
in our mind and heart
so that we are influenced by them.
How can we accomplish this?
By allowing our Bible reading
to affect us deep inside.
So as we meditate about what we read,
we can ask ourselves the questions:
Do I really believe what I just read?
Why am I sure that Bible examples
are not isolated events
but are a pattern of Jehovah’s dealings
with his loyal ones?
Have I not seen
or experienced this personally?
And don’t I see
very good reasons to believe
that through the Scriptures
Jehovah is talking to me personally?
Meditating on these questions will help us
to feel Jehovah’s sentiments
are meant for us personally.
And this, in turn, will help us
to align our thinking
with God’s thinking.
So
the widow of Zarephath reminded us
of the many different ways
Jehovah remembers widows
and their love and their fine works.
Dear sisters,
please continue to see Jehovah
as your Provider,
your Protector,
and the one who
assures you personally of his love.
You may feel abandoned,
but you’re never alone.
Jehovah sees you and loves you.
Well, life can be hard
through no fault of our own,
but sometimes it’s hard
because of our own mistakes.
How can we recover?
Let’s see how
the faithful woman Miriam did it.
Discipline can be painful.
Appreciating it for what it truly is takes faith.
Moses!
Miriam!
Oh, it’s so good to see you.
I’ve missed you.
It is time.
For he has become
highly exalted.
The horse and its rider . . .
O Jehovah, Highly Exalted One.
Please, don’t give up on me.
Hi, Miriam!
Oh, hello.
Miriam was well-known in the camp of Israel.
She enjoyed a close relationship
with her brothers, Moses and Aaron.
During the slavery in Egypt
and the Exodus that followed,
the people had grown to respect and love her.
Ah!
Oh!
What do you have?
Zipporah is back!
Zipporah, welcome home.
Thank you.
Zipporah!
Miriam.
Welcome back.
Aaron.
Zipporah, welcome.
Perhaps at first
Miriam was pleased to have Zipporah back.
How is Zipporah settling in?
Well . . .
Everyone seems excited.
Don’t you think?
But it seems that in time,
she gave in to pride.
She might have felt threatened, . . .
Thank you, Zipporah.
. . . thinking that Zipporah would replace her
as the most prominent woman in the nation.
In any case,
Miriam and Aaron engaged in negative talk.
But she’s a Cushite.
Yeah, but she is his wife.
Yes, but she’s not one of us.
Who knows how she influences him?
At first, their talk focused on Zipporah,
but it soon escalated into
complaining about Moses himself.
Look!
The people need leadership,
and they trust us.
Miriam,
Jehovah is leading the people.
You’re not listening.
Miriam!
Wait!
We are suffering out here.
Maybe she’s right.
Some have questioned my brother.
Something has to be done.
She says his Cushite wife is distracting him.
I just don’t understand what Moses is doing.
I’m tired of this.
We suffered in Egypt,
and we’re suffering here.
I hear Miriam is worried.
Maybe there’s a better way.
Miriam says we shouldn’t trust Zipporah.
Do you think Moses is still qualified
to lead the nation?
Does Moses know what he’s doing?
Maybe Jehovah wants us to do something.
Why do we have to listen to Moses?
I’m sure other people feel the same.
We should’ve stayed in Egypt.
Something has to be done.
We’re suffering here.
There’s a lot of frustration.
Why do we have to listen to Moses?
Do you think Jehovah is still with us?
Let’s turn back.
Maybe Jehovah wants us to do something.
The men in the camp are worried.
Is it only by Moses that Jehovah has spoken?
Has he not also spoken through us?
Go out,
the three of you, to the tent of meeting.
Hear my words, please.
It is not that way with my servant Moses!
Face-to-face I speak to him,
and the appearance of Jehovah is what he sees.
Why, then, did you not fear
to speak against my servant,
against Moses?
I beg you, my lord!
Please do not hold this sin against us!
We have acted foolishly.
Please, do not let her continue
like someone dead!
O God,
please heal her!
Please!
Let her be quarantined for seven days,
afterward she may be brought back.
O Jehovah, you are the Most High.
You chose Moses to lead your people,
and I, I disrespected him.
And you—
Please, please forgive me.
Miriam was not defined by her mistakes.
Shall I go and call a nursing woman
from the Hebrews to nurse the child for you?
It is time.
Jehovah will bless you and Aaron.
Jehovah disciplines those he loves.
Miriam accepted his discipline with faith.
She was restored to God’s favor
and continued serving faithfully for decades.
Centuries afterward,
Jehovah lovingly honored Miriam for her faithful service.
Through His prophet Micah, He reminded His people:
“From the house of slavery I redeemed you;
“I sent before you Moses,
Aaron, and Miriam.”
Miriam humbly used the discipline
to draw closer to God.
If you’ve made a serious mistake,
don’t give up on yourself.
Jehovah hasn’t.
Injustice has grown out of control.
How does it make you feel
when it’s in front of you?
We’ll learn from two young ones
how they overcame inequality.
Why did the fight for equality
initially appeal to you?
South Africa has a history
of legalized racism.
But just because the law has changed,
it doesn’t mean
that what’s been entrenched
into the minds and hearts of people
has also changed.
I observed that people still have prejudices,
and they have ideas
of what I should look like
or talk like
or where I should live,
and I didn’t feel
like I was accepted anywhere.
I realized that people’s needs
were not taken care of.
For example,
their living conditions were not great
—some had water, and some didn’t.
I wanted to help people.
The time came
when some political parties
were saying
that they could make a change.
Now, in my heart,
although I wouldn’t say it,
little by little I started to support them.
Protests are so powerful.
Everything is so loud and so moving
—different colors, cultures, boys, girls—
everybody getting together
to fight for the equality of others.
I wanted to be part of making a change.
What changes did you notice in yourself?
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic,
I could no longer go out freely.
Yes, I did other things,
but I also watched TV.
When I watched TV,
I noticed the things I used to see
while I was preaching
—the way women and children, the elderly,
and the immigrants
in this country were treated.
It made me want to do something.
My school also had a protest.
I knew that I couldn’t protest
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
so it was a bit frustrating.
And I also felt bad
about not getting involved,
like I was a bystander.
I looked like I didn’t care.
And I didn’t want anyone to think
that that was the case.
My parents noticed that I had become
very focused on these things.
Sometimes I would even ask
why people were treated this way.
They helped me in many ways.
They used relevant JW Broadcasting® episodes.
They also helped me through family worship.
The 2019 “Love Never Fails”! Convention
was my favorite convention.
The talk that stood out to me the most
spoke about how love “believes all things.”
If we love our brothers and sisters,
that means that we believe they have
the best intentions toward us
and toward each other.
I realized that I had to let go
of negative and critical thinking,
and now I have such amazing friendships
with a variety of people.
But to see the love that they have for me
and for each other—
I get to show that and also receive it.
The scripture that came to mind
was Jeremiah 10:23,
where it says that “it does not belong to man
. . . to direct his step.”
Thinking about that scripture made me realize
that people will not have success.
They have never succeeded in the past,
and even now I see people fail.
For me to show support,
either by protesting or on social media,
would be like painting a sinking ship.
This world is sinking,
and it won’t do me any good
to show support for it.
How are you conquering injustice today?
I don’t feel like I’m a bystander anymore
or that I’m not involved.
Instead of feeling,
like, exhausted and that there’s no change,
I get to help people
by giving people a hope for the future
that comes from the Bible.
Now I don’t focus much on news
about how people are treated
—the injustice.
But as a volunteer who preaches full time,
I help people to know Jehovah,
know the truth,
and know what Jehovah
has in store for them in the future.
During my Bible study with my dad,
we studied prophecies
and the fulfillment of them.
And so I got to see
that whatever Jehovah promised,
he fulfilled 100 percent.
So whatever he’s promised for the future,
he’s also going to fulfill.
Jehovah’s people have love.
They support each other in difficult times,
even though they speak different languages
and they come from different places,
different countries.
It convinces me that even in the future
under the rule of God’s Kingdom,
everyone in the world
will be showing that love.
When we see injustice,
we want to help;
we’re not unfeeling robots.
Like Emma and Alwande,
we use our energy
to help people experience lasting comfort.
In this month’s program,
we’ve seen how
to accept discipline with humility,
how to fight injustice
with lasting acts of love,
and how to scale the unexpected walls
of life with Jehovah’s help.
And our music video beautifully sums up
many of the points we’ve considered.
Jehovah God, a weight I bear
Of anxious thoughts, of all of life’s cares.
I approach your throne
so sure that you
Will hold my hand
And help me get through.
I do pray
To have your spirit ev’ry day.
With a lift from you,
I can fly up high above the world below.
Like an eagle
with its wings outstretched,
I soar on the power beyond my own,
The power beyond my own.
The strength I’ve gained
from you, my God,
Helps me, in turn,
care for downhearted ones.
And when they know that you are there,
They feel your love and tender care.
I do pray
To have your spirit ev’ry day.
With a lift from you,
I can fly up high above the world below.
Like an eagle
with its wings outstretched,
I soar on the power beyond my own,
The power beyond my own.
With a lift from you,
I can fly up high above the world below.
Like an eagle
with its wings outstretched,
I soar on the power beyond my own,
The power beyond my own,
The power beyond my own.
This month’s postcard comes from Canada,
where you’ll find snowcapped mountains,
crystal clear freshwater lakes,
and sweeping prairies.
Tourists travel from around the world
to see Canada’s moose,
black bears,
and woodland caribou.
You’ll also find one of the world’s
largest deposits of dinosaur fossils.
And no trip is complete
without trying the local foods.
You can have poutine,
French fries smothered
in gravy and cheese curds,
or sweets made with maple syrup.
Canada is unique
in having the world’s longest coastline,
where our Canadian brothers
have a rich history of preaching.
In 1930, a motorboat named the Charmian
and equipped with a powerful speaker system
was used to project Bible lectures
across the water.
And in the 1940’s,
the Kingdom 1 carried ministers up and down
the Newfoundland
and Labrador coasts.
And that zealous pattern
continues to this day
in the fishing towns of Newfoundland,
at the lighthouses of Nova Scotia,
and at the harbors of British Columbia.
Canada had an all-time high
of regular pioneers and publishers in 2023!
The Casa Loma Congregation in Ontario
wish to send their love and greetings
to the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.